# CMSE-202-Group-Project-Sports-


Ethan - I was responsible for adjusting a dataset from kaggle so that it sorted the stats out by each quarterback. I also used a querey to sort through the data to eliminate seasons where the quarteback didn't throw very many passes, either due to being a backup, or injured. This was completed by using a group by command to sort through the data and using a querey command to remove the undesired rows from the sorted dataset.


Sarah Koehler - I used stats from quarterbacks' rookie season in recent years to determine whether the their rookie season was successful. With the values of the whether the quarterback was successful or not, I created a model with the quarterbacks' college stats to predict whether they would be successful or not. I created both a logistic regression model and SVM model. I used the college stats from quarterbacks that are likely to be drafted this year in the two different models to try to predict whether the player will have success in their rookie season. 

The code for this is in the cfb_to_rookie_season.ipynb file. The code should be run in order. The code goes through and determines which quarterbacks' rookie seasons were successful. The threshold was for the quarterback's rookie season rate to be above the average rate of all the rookie quarterbacks and for their amount of pass attempts to be above 100. The logistic regression model is created first and then the SVM model is created through the statsmodels and sklearn libraries. Then the code uses the quarterbacks that should be drafted to predict whether they will be successful.


Jake Bulat- I was responsible for looking at how much the efficiency of the offense of the teams that drafted rookie quarter backs affected their preformance in their rookie season. Many times rookie QB's are placed under immense pressure to turn the team around in their first season so I wanted to see how much the previous state of the team's offense affected how they preformed. I used the offensive data from the previous year before each rookie qb was drafted and found rankings for those offenses. I used PCA and linear regression to look at what stats mattered most in terms of correlation with offensive success so that I could use the right stats when ranking my offenses.I also predicted future EXP based off of the offensive stats that I already had. After I had my offenses ranked I compared the rookie Qbs and the offensive rating of the previous year to see if there was any correlation between their teams previous offensive rating and their rookie year preformance.


David Selemba - I was responsible for handling play by play college and NFL data for the project that takes into account circumstance of team environemnt for each individual play. Since a quarterback is often heavily impacted by the offense around them as well as the defense and the scheme and personnel they employ, it can be misleading to solely use their statistics to model the level to which they are succeeding in the NFL. So, to take this into account, I used Pro Football Focus' grading scores, in a panel of over 100 experts observe each individual play to account for the surrounding factors to assign a player a numerical score value for the play between -2 and 2. While this score over the course of a game can be arbitrary, the scoring is based on a weighted model of the features and is normalized over the each play. My job was to find clean appropriate data and creating models that work best for this semi-subjective data. I first created an OLS model that used college grades for overall offensive grade, passing grade, and rushing grade to predict their offense grade in the NFL. I also created a two stage OLS that used attempts as a feature variable in college grade to see if greater number of attempts allowed for more accurate prediciton of NFL grades. Finally, I created a multilayer perceptron, as this was what I determined to be the best machine learning model for the subjective data. This model was used to predict the success of the current year's NFL draft quarterbacks based on their PFF grades.
